+++
title = "Decentralized IDentifier Sidechain"
weight = 20
chapter = false
pre = ""
alwaysopen = false
+++

### Overview
DID (Decentralized Identifier) ​​refers to a digital identity that can be issued by the user and independently proves ownership.

In the technical implementation of the traditional Internet, it is usually necessary to issue a digital identity by the center. This will avoid naming conflicts; authentication can also be done. Then through this center, the identity verification between strangers is complete.

Inspired by Bitcoin's decentralized wallet, we can use the wallet address as the user's ID and perform the verification by the public key corresponding to the address. Third parties are no longer required to identify themselves for strangers. This provides a digital identity solution for the independent and autonomous operation of the Internet.

Based on the above, Elastos implements Elastos DID SideChain, which provides a decentralized digital identity solution for the Internet world. Everyone can have their own DID for free. By having a DID, everyone can take ownership of their data in the Internet world; everyone can assert their own digital assets; everyone can communicate securely based on trusted identity.

Elastos DID is generated, verified and deposited based on Elastos DID SideChain. 

### Elastos DID
Elastos DID is a digital identity generated based on Elastos DID SideChain. First, the private key is generated according to the private key rule of Elastos DID SideChain, and then the private key is used to generate the public key, and then the DID is generated by the public key.

The private key is used to represent the ownership of the digital identity. The public key is used to verify the ownership of the digital identity. The DID is a symbolic representation of this digital identity, similar to the username in a traditional account system.

### Elastos DID Fee
There is no charge for creating a DID. However, any write to Elastos DID Side-Chain requires a fee.

The charge for writing a small amount of data in a transaction is relatively low, and the charging standard is: xxxxxxx (to be added)

The cost of writing a large amount of data in a transaction is relatively high, and the charging standard is: xxxxxxx(to be added)

